---
layout: post
title:  "Keeping up with the race"
date:   2015-09-09 20:22
categories: blog entrepreneur opinion
---
Here I sit, on the floor, next to [my wife](ingespeekenbrink.com) with things on my mind. So instead of just contemplating them and leaving them inside, away from the light, I thought I'd share them with the world to read. That at least would give my thoughts purpose other than personal torture and sleepless nights.

I work in a fast paced industry. As an internet savvy engineer working on web applications, websites and other internet-as-a-tool projects you're in constant awareness that others are doing it better, faster, more intelligently, have more traffic, do it with less resources and still have time to worry about keeping up a good 'work-life-balance'. Sigh, woe is me. I do feel the pressure of being compared to 'hey, you're not the next Mark Zuckerberg, right'?
 
I started [Kingsquare](https://www.kingsquare.nl) with my roommate during college. We just had a vision of creating the right solution without the bla-bla which was predominant at the time. *We just made it work <sup>tm</sup>*. We weren't corporate, we weren't puffing hot air, we just wanted it to work. And to this day, I still feel the same way. The result of this 'lets just keep it real' is that indeed I am not the next Mark Zuckerberg. It also meant that i don't drive the latest and greatest Tesla (although, that is on my wishlist someday) We just make it happen as the clients wants it. That being said, as i've stated in my previous blog: I like building stuff. Thinking about the problem of a client from a technical perspective and figuring out a solution. This usually ends up with hard to use UX, zer0 user facing documentation and ugly design. But it works. That's my passion. I believe design is a whole different world where my zer0's and one's mentality just doesn't compute. It's just too bad that the rest of the world usually judges a book by it's cover. The design, the feel, the colors used... I know.... I have it too when first looking at a new app. How quick and easy is it for me. But after that i start to look at _how_ they did it... 

That's also one of the reasons I like to read sites like [highscalability.com](http://highscalability.com/) i.e. How did whatsapp scale like it did or how did Instagram use the UI to make it feel like the image was already online whilst still uploading... All this makes the difference. And that's I guess where my next target lies: making the difference by not focusing tirelessly on the techniques, inner workings and the stuff nobody sees (or wants to know about) but about making it a pleasure to use, see and interact with.

And there lies the heart of this post: keeping up with the rest. I try to juggle my time between actual work on projects, being a husband, father, keeping up with the development of my field and still have to do some sort of personal growth thing... 

How should one keep up with the race?

Just to be clear though, I'm not envious of other developers or people in my position who seem to be better off. I'm just stating that the internet is a fast paced world where just keeping up with your own field is hard enough let alone with everyone else's..
